content/api/5.custom fields/phone.md, before:

---
title: Phone Custom Field
description: Create phone fields to store and validate phone numbers with international formatting
category: Custom Fields
---

Phone custom fields allow you to store phone numbers in records with built-in validation and international formatting. They're ideal for tracking contact information, emergency contacts, or any phone-related data in your projects.

## Basic Example

Create a simple phone field:

```graphql
mutation CreatePhoneField {
  createCustomField(input: {
    name: "Contact Phone"
    type: PHONE
    projectId: "proj_123"
  }) {
    id
    name
    type
  }
}
```

## Advanced Example

Create a phone field with description:

```graphql
mutation CreateDetailedPhoneField {
  createCustomField(input: {
    name: "Emergency Contact"
    type: PHONE
    projectId: "proj_123"
    description: "Emergency contact number with country code"
  }) {
    id
    name
    type
    description
  }
}
```

## Input Parameters

### CreateCustomFieldInput

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|
| `name` | String! | ✅ Yes | Display name of the phone field |
| `type` | CustomFieldType! | ✅ Yes | Must be `PHONE` |
| `description` | String | No | Help text shown to users |

## Setting Phone Values

To set or update a phone value on a record:

```graphql
mutation SetPhoneValue {
  setTodoCustomField(input: {
    todoId: "todo_123"
    customFieldId: "field_456"
    text: "+1 234 567 8900"
  })
}
```

### SetTodoCustomFieldInput Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|
| `todoId` | String! | ✅ Yes | ID of the record to update |
| `customFieldId` | String! | ✅ Yes | ID of the phone custom field |
| `text` | String! | ✅ Yes | Phone number with country code |
| `regionCode` | String | No | Country code (automatically detected) |

## Creating Records with Phone Values

When creating a new record with phone values:

```graphql
mutation CreateRecordWithPhone {
  createTodo(input: {
    title: "Call client"
    todoListId: "list_123"
    customFields: [{
      customFieldId: "phone_field_id"
      value: "+1-555-123-4567"
    }]
  }) {
    id
    title
    customFields {
      id
      customField {
        name
        type
      }
      text
      regionCode
    }
  }
}
```

## Response Fields

### TodoCustomField Response

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `id` | String! | Unique identifier for the field value |
| `customField` | CustomField! | The custom field definition |
| `text` | String | The formatted phone number (international format) |
| `regionCode` | String | The country code (e.g., "US", "GB", "CA") |
| `todo` | Todo! | The record this value belongs to |
| `createdAt` | DateTime! | When the value was created |
| `updatedAt` | DateTime! | When the value was last modified |

## Phone Number Validation

### Accepted Formats
Phone numbers must include a country code in one of these formats:

- **E.164 format (preferred)**: `+12345678900`
- **International format**: `+1 234 567 8900`
- **International with punctuation**: `+1 (234) 567-8900`
- **Country code with dashes**: `+1-234-567-8900`

**Note**: National formats without country code (like `(234) 567-8900`) will not work.

### Validation Rules
- Must include country code (starting with `+`)
- Uses libphonenumber-js for parsing and validation
- Automatically detects country from the number
- Formats number in international display format
- Extracts and stores country code separately

### Valid Phone Examples
```
+12345678900           # E.164 format
+1 234 567 8900        # International format
+1 (234) 567-8900      # With parentheses
+1-234-567-8900        # With dashes
+44 20 7946 0958       # UK number
+33 1 42 86 83 26      # French number
```

### Invalid Phone Examples
```
(234) 567-8900         # Missing country code
234-567-8900           # Missing country code
123                    # Too short
invalid-phone          # Not a number
+1 234                 # Incomplete number
```

## Storage Format

When a phone number is successfully validated:
- **text**: Stored in international format (e.g., `+1 234 567 8900`)
- **regionCode**: Stored as ISO country code (e.g., `US`, `GB`, `CA`)

## Required Permissions

| Action | Required Permission |
|--------|-------------------|
| Create phone field | `CUSTOM_FIELDS_CREATE` at company or project level |
| Update phone field | `CUSTOM_FIELDS_UPDATE` at company or project level |
| Set phone value | Standard record edit permissions |
| View phone value | Standard record view permissions |

## Error Responses

### Invalid Phone Format
```json
{
  "errors": [{
    "message": "Invalid phone number format.",
    "extensions": {
      "code": "CUSTOM_FIELD_VALUE_PARSE_ERROR"
    }
  }]
}
```

### Field Not Found
```json
{
  "errors": [{
    "message": "Custom field not found",
    "extensions": {
      "code": "NOT_FOUND"
    }
  }]
}
```

### Missing Country Code
```json
{
  "errors": [{
    "message": "Invalid phone number format.",
    "extensions": {
      "code": "CUSTOM_FIELD_VALUE_PARSE_ERROR"
    }
  }]
}
```

## Best Practices

### Data Entry
- Always include country code in phone numbers
- Use E.164 format for consistency
- Validate numbers before storing for important operations
- Consider regional preferences for display formatting

### Data Quality
- Store numbers in international format for global compatibility
- Use regionCode for country-specific features
- Validate phone numbers before critical operations (SMS, calls)
- Consider time zone implications for contact timing

### International Considerations
- Country code is automatically detected and stored
- Numbers are formatted in international standard
- Regional display preferences can use regionCode
- Consider local dialing conventions when displaying

## Common Use Cases

1. **Contact Management**
   - Client phone numbers
   - Vendor contact information
   - Team member phone numbers
   - Support contact details

2. **Emergency Contacts**
   - Emergency contact numbers
   - On-call contact information
   - Crisis response contacts
   - Escalation phone numbers

3. **Customer Support**
   - Customer phone numbers
   - Support callback numbers
   - Verification phone numbers
   - Follow-up contact numbers

4. **Sales & Marketing**
   - Lead phone numbers
   - Campaign contact lists
   - Partner contact information
   - Referral source phones

## Integration Features

### With Automations
- Trigger actions when phone fields are updated
- Send SMS notifications to stored phone numbers
- Create follow-up tasks based on phone changes
- Route calls based on phone number data

### With Lookups
- Reference phone data from other records
- Aggregate phone lists from multiple sources
- Find records by phone number
- Cross-reference contact information

### With Forms
- Automatic phone validation
- International format checking
- Country code detection
- Real-time format feedback

## Limitations

- Requires country code for all numbers
- No built-in SMS or calling capabilities
- No phone number verification beyond format checking
- No storage of phone metadata (carrier, type, etc.)
- National format numbers without country code are rejected
- No automatic phone number formatting in UI beyond international standard

## Related Resources

- [Text Fields](/api/custom-fields/text-single) - For non-phone text data
- [Email Fields](/api/custom-fields/email) - For email addresses
- [URL Fields](/api/custom-fields/url) - For website addresses
- [Custom Fields Overview](/custom-fields/list-custom-fields) - General concepts
- [Forms API](/api/forms) - For validated phone input

Commit message:

Fixed API Custom Field  Docs

content/api/5.custom fields/phone.md, after:

---
title: Phone Custom Field
description: Create phone fields to store and validate phone numbers with international formatting
category: Custom Fields
---

Phone custom fields allow you to store phone numbers in records with built-in validation and international formatting. They're ideal for tracking contact information, emergency contacts, or any phone-related data in your projects.

## Basic Example

Create a simple phone field:

```graphql
mutation CreatePhoneField {
  createCustomField(input: {
    name: "Contact Phone"
    type: PHONE
  }) {
    id
    name
    type
  }
}
```

## Advanced Example

Create a phone field with description:

```graphql
mutation CreateDetailedPhoneField {
  createCustomField(input: {
    name: "Emergency Contact"
    type: PHONE
    description: "Emergency contact number with country code"
  }) {
    id
    name
    type
    description
  }
}
```

## Input Parameters

### CreateCustomFieldInput

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|
| `name` | String! | ✅ Yes | Display name of the phone field |
| `type` | CustomFieldType! | ✅ Yes | Must be `PHONE` |
| `description` | String | No | Help text shown to users |

**Note**: Custom fields are automatically associated with the project based on the user's current project context. No `projectId` parameter is required.

## Setting Phone Values

To set or update a phone value on a record:

```graphql
mutation SetPhoneValue {
  setTodoCustomField(input: {
    todoId: "todo_123"
    customFieldId: "field_456"
    text: "+1 234 567 8900"
  })
}
```

### SetTodoCustomFieldInput Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|
| `todoId` | String! | ✅ Yes | ID of the record to update |
| `customFieldId` | String! | ✅ Yes | ID of the phone custom field |
| `text` | String | No | Phone number with country code |
| `regionCode` | String | No | Country code (automatically detected) |

**Note**: While `text` is optional in the schema, a phone number is required for the field to be meaningful. The `regionCode` is automatically detected from the phone number.

## Creating Records with Phone Values

When creating a new record with phone values:

```graphql
mutation CreateRecordWithPhone {
  createTodo(input: {
    title: "Call client"
    todoListId: "list_123"
    customFields: [{
      customFieldId: "phone_field_id"
      value: "+1-555-123-4567"
    }]
  }) {
    id
    title
    customFields {
      id
      customField {
        name
        type
      }
      text
      regionCode
    }
  }
}
```

## Response Fields

### TodoCustomField Response

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `id` | String! | Unique identifier for the field value |
| `customField` | CustomField! | The custom field definition |
| `text` | String | The formatted phone number (international format) |
| `regionCode` | String | The country code (e.g., "US", "GB", "CA") |
| `todo` | Todo! | The record this value belongs to |
| `createdAt` | DateTime! | When the value was created |
| `updatedAt` | DateTime! | When the value was last modified |

## Phone Number Validation

### Accepted Formats
Phone numbers must include a country code in one of these formats:

- **E.164 format (preferred)**: `+12345678900`
- **International format**: `+1 234 567 8900`
- **International with punctuation**: `+1 (234) 567-8900`
- **Country code with dashes**: `+1-234-567-8900`

**Note**: National formats without country code (like `(234) 567-8900`) may not work reliably and should include country information for proper validation.

### Validation Rules
- Uses libphonenumber-js for parsing and validation
- Accepts various international phone number formats
- Automatically detects country from the number
- Formats number in international display format (e.g., `+1 234 567 8900`)
- Extracts and stores country code separately (e.g., `US`)

### Valid Phone Examples
```
+12345678900           # E.164 format
+1 234 567 8900        # International format
+1 (234) 567-8900      # With parentheses
+1-234-567-8900        # With dashes
+44 20 7946 0958       # UK number
+33 1 42 86 83 26      # French number
```

### Invalid Phone Examples
```
(234) 567-8900         # Missing country code
234-567-8900           # Missing country code
123                    # Too short
invalid-phone          # Not a number
+1 234                 # Incomplete number
```

## Storage Format

When a phone number is successfully validated:
- **text**: Stored in international format (e.g., `+1 234 567 8900`)
- **regionCode**: Stored as ISO country code (e.g., `US`, `GB`, `CA`)

## Required Permissions

| Action | Required Permission |
|--------|-------------------|
| Create phone field | `OWNER` or `ADMIN` role at project level |
| Update phone field | `OWNER` or `ADMIN` role at project level |
| Set phone value | Standard record edit permissions |
| View phone value | Standard record view permissions |

## Error Responses

### Invalid Phone Format
```json
{
  "errors": [{
    "message": "Invalid phone number format.",
    "extensions": {
      "code": "CUSTOM_FIELD_VALUE_PARSE_ERROR"
    }
  }]
}
```

### Field Not Found
```json
{
  "errors": [{
    "message": "Custom field not found",
    "extensions": {
      "code": "CUSTOM_FIELD_NOT_FOUND"
    }
  }]
}
```

### Missing Country Code
```json
{
  "errors": [{
    "message": "Invalid phone number format.",
    "extensions": {
      "code": "CUSTOM_FIELD_VALUE_PARSE_ERROR"
    }
  }]
}
```

## Best Practices

### Data Entry
- Always include country code in phone numbers
- Use E.164 format for consistency
- Validate numbers before storing for important operations
- Consider regional preferences for display formatting

### Data Quality
- Store numbers in international format for global compatibility
- Use regionCode for country-specific features
- Validate phone numbers before critical operations (SMS, calls)
- Consider time zone implications for contact timing

### International Considerations
- Country code is automatically detected and stored
- Numbers are formatted in international standard
- Regional display preferences can use regionCode
- Consider local dialing conventions when displaying

## Common Use Cases

1. **Contact Management**
   - Client phone numbers
   - Vendor contact information
   - Team member phone numbers
   - Support contact details

2. **Emergency Contacts**
   - Emergency contact numbers
   - On-call contact information
   - Crisis response contacts
   - Escalation phone numbers

3. **Customer Support**
   - Customer phone numbers
   - Support callback numbers
   - Verification phone numbers
   - Follow-up contact numbers

4. **Sales & Marketing**
   - Lead phone numbers
   - Campaign contact lists
   - Partner contact information
   - Referral source phones

## Integration Features

### With Automations
- Trigger actions when phone fields are updated
- Send SMS notifications to stored phone numbers
- Create follow-up tasks based on phone changes
- Route calls based on phone number data

### With Lookups
- Reference phone data from other records
- Aggregate phone lists from multiple sources
- Find records by phone number
- Cross-reference contact information

### With Forms
- Automatic phone validation
- International format checking
- Country code detection
- Real-time format feedback

## Limitations

- Requires country code for all numbers
- No built-in SMS or calling capabilities
- No phone number verification beyond format checking
- No storage of phone metadata (carrier, type, etc.)
- National format numbers without country code are rejected
- No automatic phone number formatting in UI beyond international standard

## Related Resources

- [Text Fields](/api/custom-fields/text-single) - For non-phone text data
- [Email Fields](/api/custom-fields/email) - For email addresses
- [URL Fields](/api/custom-fields/url) - For website addresses
- [Custom Fields Overview](/custom-fields/list-custom-fields) - General concepts
- [Forms API](/api/forms) - For validated phone input
