---
title: Introduction
description: Welcome to the Blue API documentation.
---

The Blue API is a [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/) API that allows you to interact with Blue from your own applications. 

We have a 100% platform coverage, which means that you can use the Blue API to interact with all of our features, in the same way that a user would interact with the Blue web application. The Blue API is designed to be a simple and intuitive interface for interacting with Blue. With over 1B API requests per year, the API is tested in real-world scenarios and reliable and scalable for production use.

You can build an entire producitivity application using the Blue API! 

Common use cases that we've seen across our 15,000+ customer base include:

- Using Blue as a database to easily store and retrieve data
- Submitting form data into Blue via the API
- Creating new records based on actions in third-party applications
- Generating custom reports 

We have comprehensive documentation for each of our API endpoints, which you can find in the sidebar. Each endpoint is thoroughly explained, with examples and best practices to help you get the most out of our API.

[We also have a GraphQL Playground](https://api.blue.cc/graphql), which allows you to explore our API and test queries and mutations. This is a great tool for getting started with the Blue API and for learning more about our GraphQL schema.

We hope you find the Blue API to be a powerful tool for interacting with Blue. If you have any questions or feedback, please don't hesitate to reach out to our team at <help@blue.cc>. 

We can help you to get started and answer any questions you may have and also write sample queries and mutations for you to get started. We will add this to our catalog of examples so others can benefit from your use case.

Have fun building!

Team Blue
